good morning folks solar uptick expect
Solar uptick underway while we don't
have a bigger
option center desk we have surging
filament snaps and CMEs elsewhere on the
star jumping back please remember that
mars and saturn enter heliocentric
opposition today while the primary
heliocentric conjunction is afoot as
well Mercury and Venus the only Earth
directed component might seem minor at
first it's on the south it is a filament
rather than a flare and much of the Rope
slides down into the Sun or has
collapsed but not all of it a
significant amount of plasma has
certainly erupted from this area and it
is broad unfortunately it's difficult to
analyse on soho due to all the other non
earth directed CMI's but this one is
wide with a half to three quarter halo
eruption cloud when we isolated on
cactus you can see that this is spread
around at least half the Sun it is
coming our way NASA's endless spiral is
already updated showing the multiple
eruptions from last night including the
one heading directly to the right do for
earth impact on May seventh but I'm
going to disagree with their timing Noah
seems to have a better analysis on this
one they've isolated the earth directed
CM e on their animal and they show
impact late on the 6th that's closer to
reality I think it may actually come
sooner we may get some solar flares with
this uptick too however is the planets
come together so do the sunspots this
grouping isn't a major growth cycle and
we are now seeing mixing potential in
the center I would not be surprised if
the slight increase in to see Flair
range today continues further over the
next day or two seven days of solar wind
show that the current coronal hole is
only moderately powerful in terms of
wind speed the increased pressure is
having minor effects only with Earth's
shield doing its job perfectly right now
Pisces constellation also let loose a
gamma ray burst an hour after
yesterday's news posted the coronal
magnetic fields on the Sun are open for
the southern negative coronal hole
seismic factors are not too high at the
moment but we do have some news from
beneath our feet not sure what the
ground beneath the United States was
thinking yesterday but it tossed a
four-pointer Michigan's way and then a
double tremor event in Mississippi other
news has yet another volcano clearing
throughout this time in the Philippines
at an earth spot event associated with
the tropical storm spawned out of
nowhere last night by the UN factor ramp
from those solar eruptions Philippines
get these together storms and ground
events I've got linked for you a story
on a giant sinkhole that just opened up
in the Ukraine this one is big and deep
seven houses have been swallowed but at
least they have a perfect spot to put
that new neighborhood pool and
recreation area they've been talking
about for months we also have the latest
from NASA's Earth Observatory showing
how the recent volcano in Tonga has
connected to the islands their final
link for you today is to a great article
on what GMOs we are already eating how
long we've been eating them and who is
responsible for these nice little middle
fingers to nature we're coming to the
wind map this convergence cutting up
through the central state shifts only
slightly tonight into the central
Midwest near the lakes and that will be
our primary storm watch area this
evening then we come to Europe and
notice that same low and convergence
cutting back out to sea with the
north-south convergence lasting over to
the east and a skipping along at its own
pace clouds show both those convergence
lines the Western one being the real
problem the convergence between nations
here remains with the resurgence of the
collision to the northwest those two
areas are where you'll see the clouds
coming through this evening and into the
morning hours we've got your current
conditions followed by shots of our star
to close eyes open no fear it's 550 a.m.
eastern time and that's the news be safe
everyone